---
layout: post
title: MATH 142 Spring 2015 Review Exam
date: 2015-04-27 0:00
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

1. Compute the following (basic) integrals.  Note that in some cases you may need to use substitution, or techniques based upon "integration by parts."  The key of these questions is to be able to identify quickly the technique of integration.
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int \Big( \frac{\ln x}{x} \Big)^2 \, dx &
		& \int \frac{x^3}{(x^2+5)^2}\, dx &
		& \int x^3 ( \sin^2 x -1)\, dx \\
		& \int (x-25)^2 e^{2x}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{12\pi}{5\sqrt{1-x^2}}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{7\pi + 2x^2}{5x^3}\, dx \\
		& \int -7 \csc^2 x e^{\cot x}\, dx &
		& \int -3e^x \sec^2 (e^x)\, dx &
		& \int (e^x +23^x-\sin x)\, dx \\
		& \int \csc x \cot x\, dx &
		& \int x^7 + \frac{3}{x^2}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{\cos(5x)}{e^{\sin(5x)}}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{\tan^{-1}(4x)}{1+16x^2}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{12x-28}{3x^2-14x+7}\, dx &
		& \int \big( \cos^3 x + 3\cos^2 x +7\cos x -1 \big) \sin x\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>

2. Compute the area of the regions delimited by the curves of the following functions:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& (a) \quad y=x^2, x=2y \\
		& (b) \quad y=(x-1)^3, y=x-1 \\
		& (c) \quad y=5-2x^2, y=3x^2, x=-4, x=4 \\
		& (d) \quad x=2y, x=y-y^2 \\
		& (e) \quad y=x^3-14x, y=2x \\
		& (f) \quad y=2x^2, y=3x-x^2
		\end{align}
	</div>

3. Compute the volume of the solids of revolution obtained by revolving the given curves around the specified axes:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& (a) \quad y=x^2-4x+5, x=1, x=4, \text{ about the }x\text{-axis.} \\
		& (b) \quad y=x^2-2x, y=x, \text{ about the line }y=4. \\
		& (c) \quad y=5x^3, y=5x, x\geq 0, \text{ about the }x\text{-axis}. \\
		& (d) \quad y=x^2/9, x=3, y=0, \text{ about the }y\text{-axis.} \\
		& (e) \quad x=4y^2-y^3, \text{about the }y\text{-axis.} \\
		& (f) \quad 4y=x^2, x=3, y=0, \text{about the }y\text{-axis.}
		\end{align}
	</div>

4. The following fall into the categories of "Trigonometric Integration," and "Trigonometric substitution."  Compute the following integrals.
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int \frac{x^3}{\sqrt{25+x^2}}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{dx}{\sqrt{x^2-4}} &
		& \int \frac{dx}{x^2\sqrt{x^2+6}} \\
		& \int \sin(10x) \cos(7x)\, dx &
		& \int \sin^5 x \cos^2 x\, dx &
		& \int \frac{9x}{(1-x^2)^{3/2}}\, dx \\
		& \int \sin^2 x \cos^2 x\, dx &
		& \int \csc x\, dx &
		& \int \tan^3 x \sec^3 x\, dx \\
		& \int \sin^2 x \, dx &
		& \int \cot^2 x\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>


5. The following fall into the category of "Integration of Rational Functions."  Compute the following:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int \frac{3r^2}{r+9}\, dr &
		& \int \frac{3x^2+2x-3}{x(x^2-1)}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{7x^2+x+7}{(x^2+1)^2}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^3+8x-7}{x+4}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{dx}{2x^2-12x+26} & 
		& \int \frac{x^5+2}{x^2-2}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^3+2x-1}{(x^2-x-2)^2}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{4x^2-3x+2}{4x^2-4x+3}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{3x-1}{x^2+10x+28}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^4-5x^3+6x^2-18}{x^3-3x^2}\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>

6. Find a partial fraction decomposition of the functions below (do not solve for the variables):
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		f(x) &= \frac{5x+4}{(x+4)^3 (x^2+5)^2}, &
		g(x) &= \frac{4}{x^6-6x^3}x.
		\end{align}
	</div>


<div class="well">
	<h3>Sections 15 and 16</h3>
	This is a more complete and thorough review exam for this part of the course.  I am still missing some nice problems with sequences — we only have one, from Tierra. I am missing maybe a net area problem, but that is not so terrible, because you posted a decent selection of definite integrals.<br />

	Except for those missing problems, I have to say that this exam is very close to the level of difficulty and volume of questions that you are to expect in my final.  Good job! <br />

	And there was also two students in this section that came up with really evil integral.  One of them is doable with substitution, but it takes a trick we haven't learned yet — you will see it in MA142, though.  See if you spot it!  The other two... not so much.  They were so extremely hard, that I had to take them out of this review test.
</div>

1. Find the next three terms, and the general term of the sequence that starts as <span>\\( -\frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{4}, -\frac{1}{6}, \frac{1}{8}, \dotsc \\)</span>.

2. Evaluate the following limit:
	<div>
		\begin{equation}
		\lim_{n\to \infty} \sum_{i=1}^n \bigg[ \big(\frac{i}{n} \big)^2 + \frac{i}{n} \bigg]	
		\end{equation}
	</div>

3. Compute the following sums:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		\sum_{k=1}^{200} 7k^3 - 3k^2 + 15 &&& \sum_{n=1}^{1000} (4n+n)(2n^2+7)	
		\end{align}
	</div>

4. Compute the following integrals:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&\int 3x^3+2x+5+\frac{6}{x^2}\, dx && \int \frac{1}{4}x^2+\frac{2}{3}x+\frac{19}{7}\, dx \\
		&\int e^x \sin( e^x) \, dx && \int \frac{( \ln x )^2}{x} \, dx \\
		&\int_1^e \frac{1}{4x}\, dx && \int_1^2 \frac{e^{1/x}}{x^2}\, dx \\
		&\int \sqrt{18x} + 89\sin x\, dx && \int \sin^3 x\, dx \\
		&\int_1^{2e} \frac{5\ln x}{3x}\, dx && \int \frac{186\cos x}{34 \sin x}\, dx \\
		&\int (6x-4)(3x^2-4x)^3\, dx && \int\frac{523x^2}{(4x^3-7)^{1/5}}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{24x^3-15x}{2x^4-5x}\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>

5. Use the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus to find the derivative of the following functions:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		f(x) &= \int_{x^3+4x+\ln x}^{2x^2+4x+e^x} \sin t\, dt \\
		f(x) &= \int_{5001}^{\ln x + 4^x-17} e^x+10\, dt \\
		g(x) &= \int_x^3 \sin\big(\sqrt{6t}\big)\, dt \\
		g(x) &= \int_{e^x}^2 3\sin^8 t\, dt
		\end{align}
	</div>

