---
layout: post
title: MATH 142 Spring 2015 Review Exam. Sequences, series, power series.
date: 2015-04-28 0:00
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

<div class="well">
	<h3>Sections 5 and 6</h3>
	
	<p>The part on convergence of series is a bit small for my taste.  There are so many different possible examples for each convergence test, but you have chosen just one or two.  I will be more imaginative in my final.  Please do work some extra problems on this topic from the assigned HW in the syllabus, and online.</p>
</div>

1. Explore the convergence (absolute or conditional) or divergence of the following series.  
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{6^n+8}{11^{n+1}+27} &
		& \sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{4n^4+4n^2+3}{\sqrt{n^7+5}} &
		& \sum_{n=0}^\infty \frac{(-1)^n}{5n+2} \\
		& \sum_{n=0}^\infty (-1)^n \frac{n}{\sqrt{n^3+8}} &
		& \sum_{n=1}^\infty \bigg( \frac{6n+2}{3n+5} \bigg)^n &
		& \sum_{n=1}^\infty (-1)^2 \frac{3n^2+4}{n!} \\
		& \sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{\ln n}{n} &
		& \sum_{n=50}^\infty ne^{-n} 
		\end{align}
	</div>

2. Find the following sums (an exact value).  Show work.
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{(2e)^n}{6^{n-1}} &&
		\sum_{n=1}^\infty \frac{1}{(n+2)(n+3)}
		\end{align}
	</div>

3. Compute the volume of the solids of revolution obtained by rotating the region bounded by the following curves around the specified axes:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& (a) \quad y=x^2-4x+5, x=1, x=4, \text{ about the }x\text{-axis.} \\
		& (b) \quad y=x^2-2x, y=x, \text{ about the line }y=4. \\
		& (c) \quad y=5x^3, y=5x, x\geq 0, \text{ about the }x\text{-axis}. \\
		& (d) \quad y=x^2/9, x=3, y=0, \text{ about the }y\text{-axis.} \\
		& (e) \quad x=4y^2-y^3, \text{about the }y\text{-axis.} \\
		& (f) \quad 4y=x^2, x=3, y=0, \text{about the }y\text{-axis.}
		\end{align}
	</div>

4. The following fall into the categories of "Trigonometric Integration," and "Trigonometric substitution."  Compute the following integrals.
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int \frac{x^3}{\sqrt{25+x^2}}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{dx}{\sqrt{x^2-4}} &
		& \int \frac{dx}{x^2\sqrt{x^2+6}} \\
		& \int \sin(10x) \cos(7x)\, dx &
		& \int \sin^5 x \cos^2 x\, dx &
		& \int \frac{9x}{(1-x^2)^{3/2}}\, dx \\
		& \int \sin^2 x \cos^2 x\, dx &
		& \int \csc x\, dx &
		& \int \tan^3 x \sec^3 x\, dx \\
		& \int \sin^2 x \, dx &
		& \int \cot^2 x\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>


5. The following fall into the category of "Integration of Rational Functions."  Compute the following:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int \frac{3r^2}{r+9}\, dr &
		& \int \frac{3x^2+2x-3}{x(x^2-1)}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{7x^2+x+7}{(x^2+1)^2}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^3+8x-7}{x+4}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{dx}{2x^2-12x+26} & 
		& \int \frac{x^5+2}{x^2-2}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^3+2x-1}{(x^2-x-2)^2}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{4x^2-3x+2}{4x^2-4x+3}\, dx &
		& \int \frac{3x-1}{x^2+10x+28}\, dx \\
		& \int \frac{x^4-5x^3+6x^2-18}{x^3-3x^2}\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>

6. Find a partial fraction decomposition of the functions below (do not solve for the variables):
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		f(x) &= \frac{5x+4}{(x+4)^3 (x^2+5)^2}, &
		g(x) &= \frac{4}{x^6-6x^3}.
		\end{align}
	</div>

7. Compute the following:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		& \int_0^1 \frac{4}{x^3}\, dx &
		& \int_1^6 \frac{dx}{(x-1)^3} & 
		& \int_2^8 \frac{5}{x^3-8}\, dx \\
		& \int_{-1}^1 \frac{dx}{x} &
		& \int_{-\pi/2}^{\pi/2} \csc x \cot x\, dx &
		& \int_1^\infty \frac{dx}{2-x}
		\end{align}
	</div>


