---
layout: post
title: MATH 142 Fall 2016 Review Exam
date: 2014-12-01 8:07
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

<div class="well">
	<h3>Integration</h3>

	This is one of the best reviews I have seen.  All required skills are present, and there is a good transition from easy to hard for each category.  Well done!  There are a couple of blunders (integrals labeled as belonging to one technique that are not solvable that way, for example), but in general it does not affect too much to the overall quality.  My selection of improper integrals may be a bit more interesting than yours, though. A solid 5/5, nevertheless.
</div>

1. Compute the following integrals:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&\int \cos^3 \big(\tfrac{x}{2}\big) \csc^2 \big( \tfrac{x}{2}\big) \, dx &&\int p(p+5)^8\, dp \\
		&\int x^3\sqrt{x^2-6}\, dx &&\int e^x \cos x\, dx \\
		&\int x^3e^{2x}\, dx &&\int x^2\sin x\, dx \\
		&\int \sin^3 x\cos^2 x\, dx && \textcolor{red}{\int x\sin^{-1}(x^2)\, dx} \\
		&\int e^x\sec^2 x\, dx &&\int 6\cos^3 \big(\tfrac{x}{10}\big)\, dx \\
		&\int 4\cos^2 (2\theta) \sin (2\theta)\, d\theta && \int 10\sin^2 (5x) \cos^2 (5x)\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{2x^2}{\sqrt{16-x^2}}\, dx && \int \frac{\sqrt{9x^2-1}}{x^3}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{dx}{x^2\sqrt{x^2+1}} && \int \frac{x^2-7x+3}{x+3}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{x^3-4}{x-2}\, dx && \int \frac{3x^2+5x-3}{x-1}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{6x+22}{2(x^2-x-6)}\, dx && \int \frac{2x^3+x^2+2x+8}{(x^2+1)^2}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{11x+81}{(x+7)(x+9)}\, dx &&\int \frac{x+1}{x^2(x-1)}\, dx \\
		&\int \frac{x-6}{x^2(x+1)}\, dx && \int x\ln x\, dx \\
		\end{align}
	</div>	

2. Compute the following definite integrals:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&\int_0^2 \frac{dx}{\sqrt{4-x^2}} &&\int_{-\infty}^6 \frac{6}{x^2+36}\, dx
		\end{align}
	</div>

3. Compute the derivative of the following functions:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		F(x) &= \int_x^5 \sqrt{1+t^4}\, dt \\
		F(x) &= \int_0^{3x^2-2x+e^x} \sqrt{1+t^2}\, dt
		\end{align}
	</div>

<div class="well">
	<h3>Parametric and Polar equations</h3>

	All the different skills seem to be there, except the computation of lengths of curves given in parametric.  Make sure to study that part too.  Most of the problems are moderate-to-easy.  Remember that in your final exam I may offer a problem that requires integration of a function that cannot be carried by a calculator---make sure to work those problems with and without calculator.

	A couple of problem proposals were poorly written, came with typos, or didn't carry interesting variation of examples (too repetitive).  All in all, I would give this section a 3/5.
</div>

1. Find 4 different instances of points in polar coordinates that represent the point in Cartesian coordinates given by <span>\\( x=3, y=3. \\)</span>

2. Convert the point given in polar coordinates by <span>\\( (5, 3\pi/2) \\)</span> into Cartesian coordinates.

3. Convert the polar equation, <span>\\( r = 6 \cos\theta \\)</span>, into a parametric equation.

4. [<strong>I like this problem!  It is evil.  Good luck getting a solution.</strong>] Convert the polar equation, <span>\\( 6/r = 5\cos\theta + \tfrac{1}{3}\csc\theta \\)</span>, into a parametric equation. 


5. Convert the following curves (given in polar coordinates) into parametric equations:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&r^2 = 4 \\
		&r\cos\theta = 17
		\end{align}
	</div>

5. Compute the tangent line to the curve given in parametric equations by <span>\\( x(t) = \cos^2 t, \\)</span> <span>\\( y(t) = 2\sin t \\)</span> at <span>\\( t = \pi/6 \\)</span>

4. Find a parametrization for the line segment from <span>\\( (0,1) \\)</span> to <span>\\( (4,0). \\)</span>

5. Without using a calculator, sketch the graph of the curve given in parametric equations by <span>\\( x(t) = 2t-5, \\)</span> <span>\\( y(t) = 4t-7, \\)</span>  <span>\\( 1 \leq t \leq 3 \\)</span>

6. Express in polar coordinates the curves given in implicit form by <span>\\( x^2/16 + y^2/9 = 1 \\)<span> and <span>\\( 3x-2y=6. \\)<span>

7. Find the length of the following curves:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		r &= \theta^2, && 0 \leq \theta \leq \sqrt{5} \\
		r &= \cos^3 \tfrac{\theta}{3}, && 0 \leq \theta \leq \pi/4 \\
		\end{align}
	</div>	

8. Compute the area of the region bounded by <span>\\( r = \sin\theta,  0 \leq \theta \leq 2\pi. \\)</span>

10. Compute the area of the region bounded by <span>\\( r = 4 + \cos 2\theta, \pi/8 \leq \theta \leq \pi. \\)<span>

11. Compute the area of the region bounded by the astroid <span>\\( x(t) = \cos^3 t, \\)</span> <span>\\( y(t) = \sin^3 t, \\)<span> <span>\\( 0 \leq t \leq 2\pi. \\)</span>

