---
layout: post
title: MATH 141 Fall 2016 Review Exam
date: 2014-12-01 23:04
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

1. Find the domain of <span>\\( f \circ g \\)</span> and <span>\\( g \circ f \\)</span> for the functions
	<div>
	\begin{equation}
	f(x) = \sqrt{x+5}, \qquad g(x) = 1/x
	\end{equation}
	</div>	

2. Given <span>\\( f(x) = 3 + \sin x, \\)</span> find the expression of a function obtained from <span>\\( f \\)</span> by performing a vertical stretch with factor 4.

3. Find the range of the function <span>\\( f(x) = \dfrac{x-1}{x+2}. \\)</span>

4. Study the continuity of the function <span>\\( f(x) = \dfrac{4x+10}{x^2-2x-15}. \\)</span>

1. Compute the derivatives of the following functions:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&f(x) = 2^x \cos x + \frac{5\ln x}{4x^2} && f(x) = \sin (x^2) \\
		&f(x) = (x^3 -2x^2 +1)^3 && y = (x^2+4)^{e^{3x}}
		\end{align}
	</div>	

2. Compute the following limits:
	<div>
		\begin{align}
		&\lim_{x \to 1} \frac{4x - \sin x}{1-x^3} && \lim_{x \to 2} - \frac{x-2}{x^2-4} \\
		&\lim_{x \to 2^-} \frac{x^2 - 4x  +3}{x^2 - 3x +2 } && \lim_{x \to \infty} \frac{3x^3+2x^2+4x}{8x^3+x^2+x} \\
		&\lim_{x \to 3} \frac{\sqrt{x+1}-2}{x-3} && \lim_{x \to \infty} \frac{\ln (x^3+6x^2+3x+9)}{\ln x}
		\end{align}
	</div>

4. Find an equation for the tangent line to the function <span>\\( f(x) = \sqrt{x^2+3} \\)</span> at the point <span>\\( (-1,2). \\)</span>

5. Find an equation for the normal line to the function <span>\\( f(x) = x^2 + \sin x \\)</span> at <span>\\( x = 0. \\)</span>

3. A conical cup with a radius of 2.25 inches is filled with 6 inches of water. The cup begins to leak and the water level decreases at a rate of 1.5 inches per minute. After two minutes, at what rate is the volume of water changing?

5. A box with an open top is to be constructed from a square piece of cardboard 5 ft wide by cutting out small squares from each of the 4 corners and bending up the sides. Find the largest volume that such a box can have and its surface area.

6. A rectangular poster is being made, containing 64 square inches of printing and a 4-inch margin at the top and bottom, as well as a 1-inch margin along each side.  What overall dimensions will minimize the amount of paper used to create this poster?

7. At 3:00 PM dragon A is 100 miles east of dragon B. Dragon A is flying south at a rate of 10 miles per hour. Dragon B is flying north at a rate of 30 miles per hour. How fast is the distance between the two dragons changing at 7:00 PM?

8. Find the dimensions of a rectangle with an area of 34300 square meters for which the perimeter is as small as possible.

6. Sketch the graph of the function <span>\\( f(x) = e^x/x. \\)</span>

7. Find and classify all critical points of the function <span>\\( f(x) = x^4 - 4x^3 + 10. \\)</span>

8. Find all inflection points of the function <span>\\( f(x) = (2x^5)-(x^3)+(5x^2)+(x-12). \\)</span>

8. Find <span>\\( \frac{dy}{dx} \\)</span> for a function <span>\\( y = y(x) \\)</span> that satisfies the implicit equation <span>\\( e^{x+2y} = 1. \\)</span>

