---
layout: post
title: MATH 524 Fall 17 Chapter 4
date: 2017-10-06 08:32
comments: true
category: forum
current: false
---

## Basic, Intermediate and CAS problems

<div class="alert alert-info">
The following is the list of <strong>non-advanced</strong> problems for Chapter 3 of the class notes.  There is a forum open at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

1. Consider the following problem: Find the global minimum of the function \\( f(x,y) = 6(x-10)^2+4(y-12.5)^2 \\) on the set \\( S = \\{ (x,y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 : x^2+(y-5)^2 \leq 50, x^2+3y^2\leq 200, (x-6)^2+y^2 \leq 37 \\}.\\)

	* Write the statement of this problem as a program with the notation from equation (22).  Label the objective function, as well as the inequality constraints accordingly.
	* Is the objective function \\( f \\) pseudo-convex? Why or why not?
	* Are the inequality constraints quasi-convex?  Why or why not?
	* Sketch the feasibility region.  Label all relevant objects involved.
	* Is the point \\( (7,6) \\) feasible?  Why or why not?
	* Employ Theorem 4.4 to write a necessary condition for optimality and verify that is satisfied by the point \\( (7,6). \\)
	* Employ Theorem 4.5 to decide whether this point is an optimal solution of (P).


2. Let \\( f(x,y)=(x-4)^2+(y-6)^2.\\)  Consider the program (P) to find the global minimum of \\( f \\) on the set \\( S = \\{ (x,y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 : y-x^2\geq 0, y\leq 4 \\}. \\)

	* Write the statement of this problem as a program with the notation from equation 22.  Label the objective function, as well as the inequality constraints accordingly.
	* Is the objective function \\( f \\) pseudo-convex? Why or why not?
	* Are the inequality constraints quasi-convex?  Why or why not?
	* Sketch the feasibility region.  Label all relevant objects involved.
	* Is the point \\( (2,4) \\) feasible?  Why or why not?
	* Employ Theorem 4.4 to write a necessary condition for optimality and verify that is satisfied by the point \\( (2,4) \\).
	* Employ Theorem 4.5 to decide whether this point is an optimal solution of (P).

3. Let \\( f(x,y)=(x-9/4)^2+(y-2)^2. \\)  Consider the program (P) to find the global minimum of \\( f \\) on the set \\( S = \\{ (x,y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 : y-x^2 \geq 0, x+y\leq 6, x\geq 0, y \geq 0 \\}. \\) 

	* Write down the KKT optimality conditions and verify that these conditions are satisfied at the point \\( (3/2, 9/4) \\).
	* Present a graphical interpretation of the KKT conditions at \\( (3/2, 9/4) \\).
	* Show that this point is the optimal solution to the program.

4. Find examples of non-diagonal \\( 3\times 3 \\) symmetric square matrices with integer-valued eigenvalues of each type below: 

	* \\(\boldsymbol{A}_1\\) positive definite, 
	* \\(\boldsymbol{A}_2\\) positive semi-definite, 
	* \\(\boldsymbol{A}_3\\) negative definite, 
	* \\(\boldsymbol{A}_4\\) negative semi-definite, and 
	* \\(\boldsymbol{A}_5\\) indefinite. 

	For each of these matrices, find the maximum of their corresponding quadratic form \\( \mathcal{Q}_{\boldsymbol{A}_k}(x,y,z) \\) over the unit ball \\( \mathbb{B}_3 = \\{ (x,y,z) \in \mathbb{R}^3: x^2+y^2+z^2 \leq 1 \\}. \\)
