---
layout: post
title: MATH 524 Fall 2017 Chapter 2
date: 2017-09-06 08:33
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

## Basic, Intermediate and CAS problems

<div class="alert alert-info">
The following is the list of <strong>non-advanced</strong> problems for Chapter 2 of the class notes.  There is a forum open at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

1. Consider the function \\( f(x,y) = \dfrac{x+y}{2+\cos x}. \\) At what points \\( (x,y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 \\) is this function continuous?

2. Give an example of a \\( 2 \times 2 \\) symmetric matrix of each kind below:

	* positive definite, 
	* positive semidefinite, 
	* negative definite, 
	* negative semidefinite,
	* indefinite.

3. Classify the following matrices according to whether they are positive or negative definite or semidefinite or indefinite:

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 1 & 0 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 3 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 0 & 5 \end{bmatrix}  \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} -1 & 0 & 0 \\\\ 0 & -3 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 0 & -2 \end{bmatrix} \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 7 & 0 & 0 \\\\ 0 & -8 & 0  \\\\ 0 & 0 & 5 \end{bmatrix}  \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 3 & 1 & 2 \\\\ 1 & 5 & 3 \\\\ 2 & 3 & 7 \end{bmatrix}  \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} -4 & 0 & 1 \\\\ 0 & -3 & 2 \\\\ 1 & 2 & -5 \end{bmatrix}  \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 2 & -4 & 0  \\\\ -4 & 8 & 0 \\\\ 0 & 0 & -3 \end{bmatrix}\\)

4. Write the quadratic form \\( \mathcal{Q}_{\boldsymbol{A}}(\boldsymbol{x}) \\) associated with each of the following matrices \\( \boldsymbol{A} \\):

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} -1 & 2 \\\\ 2 & 3 \end{bmatrix} \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 1 & -1 & 0 \\\\ -1 & -2 & 2 \\\\ 0 & 2 & 3 \end{bmatrix} \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} 2 & -3 \\\\ -3 & 0 \end{bmatrix} \\)
	* \\( \begin{bmatrix} -3 & 1 & 2 \\\\ 1 & 2 & -1 \\\\ 2 & -1 & 4 \end{bmatrix} \\)

5. Write each of the quadratic forms below in the form \\( \boldsymbol{x} \boldsymbol{A} \boldsymbol{x}^\intercal \\) for an appropriate symmetric matrix \\( \boldsymbol{A} \\):

	* \\( 3x^2-xy+2y^2. \\)
	* \\( x^2+2y^2-3z^2+2xy-4xz+6yz. \\)
	* \\( 2x^2-4z^2+xy-yz. \\)

6. Identify which of the following real-valued functions are coercive.  Explain the reason.

	* \\( f(x,y) = \sqrt{x^2+y^2}. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = x^2 + 9y^2 - 6xy. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = x^4 - 3xy +y^4. \\)
	* Rosenbrock functions \\( \mathcal{R}_{a,b}. \\)

7. Let \\( C \subseteq \mathbb{R}^2 \\) be a convex figure.  Given a point \\( P \in C \\), let \\( n(P) \\) be the number of chords for which \\( P \\) is a midpoint.
For instance, if \\( C \\) is a disk, any point \\( P \in C \\) satisfies \\( n(P)=0 \\) (if the point \\( P \\) is on the circle), \\( n(P) = \infty \\) (if the point \\( P \\) is the center of the disk), or \\( n(P)=1 \\) for any other point in the interior of \\( C \\).

	* Are there convex sets that contain points \\( P \\) with \\( n(P)=2 \\)?  If so, sketch an example.
	* Are there convex sets that contain points \\( P \\) with \\( n(P)=m \\) for any \\( m \geq 3 \\)?  If so, sketch and example for \\( m=3 \\).

8. Determine whether the given functions are convex, concave, strictly convex or strictly concave on the specified domains:
	* \\( f(x) = \log(x) \\) on \\( (0,\infty). \\)
	* \\( f(x) = e^{-x} \\) on \\( \mathbb{R}. \\)
	* \\( f(x) = \lvert x \rvert \\) on \\( [-1,1]. \\)
	* \\( f(x) = \lvert x^3 \rvert \\) on \\( \mathbb{R}. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = 5x^2+2xy+y^2-x+2x+3 \\) on \\( \mathbb{R}^2. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = x^2/2+3y^2/2+\sqrt{3}xy \\) on \\( \mathbb{R}^2. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = 4e^{3x-y}+5e^{x^2+y^2} \\) on \\( \mathbb{R}^2. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y,z) = x^{1/2} + y^{1/3} + z^{1/5} \\) on \\( C = \\{ (x,y,z) : x>0, y>0, z>0 \\}. \\)

9. Sketch the epigraph of the following functions

	* \\( f(x) = e^x. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y)=x^2+y^2. \\)

10. For the following optimization problems, state whether existence of a solution is guaranteed:

	* \\( f(x) = \dfrac{1+x}{x} \\) over \\( [1,\infty) \\)
	* \\( f(x) = 1/x \\) over \\( [1,2) \\)
	* The following piecewise function over \\( [1,2] \\)

	$$ f(x) = \begin{cases}
	1/x, &\text{if }1\leq x<2 \\\\
	1,   &\text{if }x=2
	\end{cases} $$

11. Use the **Principal Minor Criteria** to determine---if possible---the nature of the critical points of the following functions:

	* \\( f(x,y) = x^3+y^3-3x-12y+20. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y,z) = 3x^2+2y^2+2z^2+2xy+2yz+2xz. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y,z) = x^2+y^2+z^2-4xy. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = x^4+y^4-x^2-y^2+1. \\)
	* \\( f(x,y) = 12x^3+36xy-2y^3+9y^2-72x+60y+5. \\)

12. Show that the function \\( f(x,y,z) = e^{x^2+y^2+z^2}-x^4-y^6-z^6 \\) has a global minimum on \\( \mathbb{R}^3. \\)

13. Consider the function \\( f(x,y) = x^3 + e^{3y} -3xe^y. \\) Show that \\( f \\) has exactly one critical point, and that this point is a local minimum but not a global minimum.

14. Let \\( f(x,y) = -\log(1-x-y)-\log x -\log y. \\)

	* Find the domain \\( D \\) of \\( f. \\)
	* Prove that \\( D \\) is a convex set.
	* Prove that \\( f \\) is strictly convex on \\( D. \\)
	* Find the strict global minimum.

15. Find local and global minima in \\( \mathbb{R}^3 \\) (if they exist) for the function \\( f(x,y) = e^{x+z-y}+e^{y-x-z}. \\)
