---
layout: post
title: MATH 524 Fall 17 Chapter 5
date: 2017-11-20 08:47
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

## Basic, Intermediate and CAS problems

<div class="alert alert-info">
The following is the list of <strong>non-advanced</strong> problems for Chapter 3 of the class notes.  There is a forum open at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

1. Use a projection method to find the global minimum of the function \\( f(x,y,z)=x^2+2y^2+3z^2 \\) over the plane \\( x+y+z=1. \\)

2. Use a projection method to find the global minimum of the function \\( f(x,y,z,t)=x^2+2y^2+2z^2+t^2 \\) over the plane

	$$ S = \{ (x,y,z,t) \in \field{R}^4 : x+y+z=t, x+y=4 \} $$

3. Solve the following linear program by the simplex method:
	$$ (LP): \begin{cases}
	\displaystyle{\max_{(x,y,z) \in \field{R}^3} \big( 4x+y-z \big)} \\
	x+3z \leq 6 \\
	3x+y+3z \leq 9 \\
	x \geq 0, y\geq 0, z\geq 0
	\end{cases} $$

4. The following tableaux were obtained in the course of solving linear programs with two non-negative variables \\( x_1 \\) and \\( x_2 \\), two inequality constraints for which slack or surplus variables \\( x_3 \\) and \\( x_4 \\) were needed.  In each case, indicate whether the corresponding linear program has a unique optimum solution, has several optimum solutions (and in that case find them all), it is unbounded, or degenerate.

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix}
	1 &   0 &   3 &   2 &   0 & 20 \\
	0 &   1 &  -2 &  -1 &   0 &  4 \\
	0 &   0 &  -1 &   0 &   1 &  2 \\ \hline
	z & x_1 & x_2 & x_3 & x_4
	\end{bmatrix} \\)

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix}
	1 &   0 &  -1 &   0 &   2 & 20 \\
	0 &   0 &   0 &   1 &  -2 &  5 \\
	0 &   1 &  -2 &   0 &   3 &  6 \\ \hline
	z & x_1 & x_2 & x_3 & x_4
	\end{bmatrix} \\)

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix}
	1 &   2 &   0 &   0 &   1 &  8 \\
	0 &   3 &   1 &   0 &  -2 &  4 \\
	0 &  -2 &   0 &   1 &   1 &  0 \\ \hline
	z & x_1 & x_2 & x_3 & x_4
	\end{bmatrix} \\)

	* \\( \begin{bmatrix}
	1 &   0 &   0 &   2 &   0 &  5 \\
	0 &   0 &  -1 &   1 &   1 &  4 \\
	0 &   1 &   1 &  -1 &   0 &  4 \\ \hline
	z & x_1 & x_2 & x_3 & x_4
	\end{bmatrix} \\)

5. Consider the following linear program

	$$ (LP): \begin{cases}
	\displaystyle{\max_{(x,y,z) \in \field{R}^3} \big( 5x+3y+z \big)} \\
	x+y+z \leq 6 \\
	5x+3y+6z \leq 15 \\
	x \geq 0, y \geq 0, z \geq 0
	\end{cases} $$

Assume the following is an associated tableau:

	$$ \begin{bmatrix}
	1 &   0 &   0 &    5 &   0 &   1  & 15 \\
	0 &   0 & 0.4 & -0.2 &   1 & -0.2 &  3 \\
	0 &   1 & 0.6 &  1.2 &   0 &  0.2 &  3 \\ \hline
	z & x_1 & x_2 &  x_3 & x_4 &  x_5  
	\end{bmatrix} $$

	* What basic solution does this tableau represent? Is this solution optimal? Explain why or why not.
	* Does this tableau represent a unique optimal solution? If not, find at least three alternative optimal solutions.

6. In a computer language or CAS of your choice, design a routine that gathers the following as input:

	* A \\( d \\)-dimensional vector \\( \boldsymbol{c}=[c_1, \dotsc, c_d] \\) representing a linear function \\( f(\boldsymbol{x}) = \langle \boldsymbol{c}, \boldsymbol{x} \rangle.\\)
	* A matrix \\( \boldsymbol{A} \\) with dimension \\( \ell \times d \\), and an \\( \ell \\)-dimensional vector \\( \boldsymbol{b} = [b_1, \dotsc, b_\ell] \\).  These two objects represent \\( \ell \\) linear inequality constraints of the form \\( \boldsymbol{A}\transpose{\boldsymbol{x}}=\transpose{\boldsymbol{b}}. \\)

	The routine produces the solution of the following linear program:

	$$ (LP): \begin{cases} \displaystyle{\min_{\boldsymbol{x} \in S} \langle \boldsymbol{c}, \boldsymbol{x} \rangle} \\ S = \{ \boldsymbol{x} \in \field{R}^d : \boldsymbol{A}\transpose{\boldsymbol{x}}=\transpose{\boldsymbol{b}}, x_k \geq 0, 1 \leq k \leq d \} \end{cases} $$

7. Use the Frank-Wolfe method to find the minimum value of the function \\( f(x,y)=(x-1)^2+(y+5)^2 \\) over the square with vertices at \\( (2,2) \\), \\( (3,3) \\), \\( (4,2) \\) and \\( (3,1) \\).
