---
layout: post
title: MATH 300 Fall 2018 Assignment 13
date: 2018-08-03 23:23
comments: true
category: forum
current: false
---

## Proof by Contradiction

<div class="alert alert-info">
  The following is the list of problems for Chapter 6 of the <em>Book of Proof</em> (page 118).  There is a forum open
  at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in
  your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

A. Use the method of proof by contradiction to prove the following statements.  (In each case, you should also think about how a direct or contrapositive proof would work.  You will find in most cases that proof by contradiction is easier.)

1. Suppose \\( n \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( n \\) is odd, then \\( n^2 \\) is odd.
2. Suppose \\( n \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( n^2 \\) is odd, then \\( n \\) is odd.
3. Prove that \\( \sqrt[3]{2} \\) is irrational.
4. Prove that \\( \sqrt{6} \\) is irrational.
5. Prove that \\( \sqrt{3} \\) is irrational.
6. If \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z} \\), then \\( a^2-4b-2 \neq 0 \\).
7. If \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z} \\), then \\( a^2-4b-3 \neq 0 \\).
8. Suppose \\( a, b, c, \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( a^2 + b^2 = c^2 \\), then \\( a \\) or \\( b \\) is even.
9. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{R} \\).  If \\( a \\) is rational and \\( ab \\) is irrational, then \\( b \\) is irrational.
10. There exist no integers \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) for which \\( 21a + 30b = 1 \\).
11. There exist no integers \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) for which \\( 18a + 6b = 1 \\).
12. For every positive \\( x \in \mathbb{Q} \\), there is a positive \\( y \in \mathbb{Q} \\) for which \\( y < x \\).
13. For every \\( x \in [\pi/2, \pi] \\), \\( \sin x - \cos x \geq 1 \\).
14. If \\( A \\) and \\( B \\) are sets, then \\( A \cap (B \setminus A) = \emptyset \\).
15. If \\( b \in \mathbb{Z} \\) and \\( b \\!\nmid\\! k \\) for every \\( k \in \mathbb{N} \\), then \\( b=0 \\).
16. If \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) are positive real numbers, then \\( a + b \geq 2 \sqrt{ab} \\).
17. For every \\(n \in \mathbb{Z} \\), \\( 4 \\!\nmid\\! (n^2+2) \\).
18. Suppose \\( a,b \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( 4 \vert (a^2+b^2) \\), then \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) are not both odd.


 B. Prove the following statements using any method from Chapters 4, 5 or 6.

{:start="19"}
19. The product of any five consecutive integers is divisible by 120.  (For example, the product of 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 is 2520, and \\( 2520=120 \cdot 21\\).)
20. We say that a point \\( P = (x,y) \in \mathbb{R}^2 \\) is **rational** if both \\( x \\) and \\( y \\) are rational.  More precisely, \\( P \\) is rational if \\( P \in \mathbb{Q}^2 \\).  An equation \\( F(x,y)= 0 \\) is said to have a **rational point** if there exists \\( x_0, y_0 \in \mathbb{Q} \\) such that \\( F(x_0, y_0)=0 \\).  For ecample, the curve \\( x^2+y^2-1=0 \\) has rational point \\( (x_0,y_0)=(1,0) \\).  Show that the curve \\( x^2+y^2-3=0 \\) has no rational points.
21. Exercise 20 (above) involved showing that there are no rational points on the curve \\( x^2+y^2-3 \\).  Use this fact to show that \\( \sqrt{3} \\) is irrational.
22. Use the above result to prove that \\( \sqrt{3^k} \\) is irrational for all odd, positive \\( k \\).
24. The number \\( \log_2 3 \\) is irrational.
