---
layout: post
title: MATH 300 Fall 2018 Assignment 14
date: 2018-11-09 8:11 am
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

## Non-Conditional Statements

<div class="alert alert-info">
  The following is the list of problems for Chapter 7 of the <em>Book of Proof</em> (page 129).  There is a forum open
  at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in
  your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

Prove the following statements.  These exercises are cumulative, covering all techniques addressed in Chapters 4--7.

1. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) Then \\( x \\) is even if and only if \\( 3x+5 \\) is odd.
2. Suppose \\( x in \mathbb{Z}. \\)  Then \\( x \\) is odd if and only if \\( 3x+6 \\) is odd.
3. Given an integer \\( a, \\) then \\( a^3+a^2+a \\) is even if and only if \\( a \\) is even.
4. Given an integer \\( a, \\) then \\( a^2+4a+5 \\) is odd if and only if \\( a \\) is even.
5. An integer \\( a \\) is odd if and only if \\( a^3 \\) is odd.
6. Suppose \\( x, y \in \mathbb{R}. \\)  Then \\( x^3+x^2y=y^2+xy \\) if and only if \\( y=x^2 \\) or \\( y=-x. \\)
7. Suppose \\( x, y \in \mathbb{R}. \\)  Then \\( (x+y)^2=x^2+y^2 \\) if and only if \\( x=0 \\) or \\( y=0. \\)
8. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) Prove that \\( a \equiv b \pmod{10} \\) if and only if \\( a \equiv b \pmod{2}
   \\) and \\( a \equiv b \pmod{5}. \\)
9. Suppose \\( a \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) Prove that \\( 14 \vert a \\) if and only if \\( 7 \vert a \\) and \\( 2 \vert
   a. \\)
10. If \\( a \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( a^3 \equiv a \pmod{3}. \\)
11. Suppose \\( a,b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\)  Prove that \\( (a-3)b^2 \\) is even if and only if \\( a \\) is odd or \\( b
    \\) is even.
12. There exists a positive real number \\( x \\) for which \\( x^2 < \sqrt{x}. \\)
13. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) If \\( a+b \\) is odd, then \\( a^2+b^2 \\) is odd.
14. Suppose \\( a \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) Then \\( a^2 \vert a \\) if and only if \\( a \in \{ -1, 0 1 \} \\).
15. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\)  Prove that \\( a+b \\) is even if and only if \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) have the
    same parity.
16. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\) If \\( ab \\) is odd, then \\( a^2+b^2 \\) is even.
17. There is a prime number between 90 and 100.
18. There is a set \\( X \\) for which \\( \mathbb{N} \in X \\) and \\( \mathbb{N} \subseteq X \\).
19. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( 2^0 + 2^1 + 2^2 + \dotsb + 2^n = 2^{n+1}-1. \\)
20. There exists \\( n \in \mathbb{N} \\) for which \\( 11 \vert (2^n-1). \\)
21. Every real solution of \\( x^3+x+3=0 \\) is irrational.
22. If \\( n \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( 4 \vert n^2 \\) or \\( 4 \vert (n^2-1). \\)
23. Suppose \\( a, b \\) and \\( c \\) are integers.  If \\( a \vert b \\) and \\( a \vert (b^2-c), \\) then \\( a \vert
    c. \\)
24. If \\( a \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( 4 \\!\nmid\\! (a^2-3). \\)
25. If \\( p > 1 \\) is an integer and \\( n \\!\nmid\\! p \\) for each integer for which \\( 2 \leq n \leq \sqrt{p},
    \\) then \\( p \\) is prime.
26. The product of any \\( n \\) consecutive positive integers is divisible by \\( n!. \\)
27. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z}. \\)  If \\( a^2 + b^2 \\) is a perfect square, then \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) are not
    both odd.
28. Prove the division algorithm.  If \\( a, b \in \mathbb{N}, \\) there exist _unique_ integers \\( q, r \\) for which
    \\( a = bq + r, \\) and \\( 0\leq r < b. \\) 
29. If \\( a \vert bc \\) and \\( \gcd(a,b) = 1, \\) then \\( a \vert c. \\) (suggestion: use the proposition in page 126)
30. Suppose \\( a, b, p \in \mathbb{Z} \\) and \\( p \\) is prime.  Prove that if \\( p \vert ab \\) then \\( p \vert a
    \\) or \\( p \vert b \\).  (suggestion: use the proposition in page 126)
31. If \\( n \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( \gcd(n,n+1) = 1 \\).
32. If \\( n \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( \gcd(n,n+2) \in \{ 1, 2 \}. \\)
33. In \\( n \in \mathbb{Z}, \\) then \\( \gcd(2n+1, 4n^2+1)=1. \\)
34. If \\( \gcd(a,c)=\gcd(b,c)=1, \\) then \\( \gcd(ab,c)=1. \\) (suggestion: use the proposition in page 126).
35. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{N}. \\) Then \\( a = \gcd(a,b) \\) if and only if \\( a \vert b. \\)
36. Suppose \\( a, b in \mathbb{N}. \\)  Then \\( a = \lcm(a,b) \\) if and only if \\( b \vert a. \\)
