---
layout: post
title: MATH 300 Fall 2018 Assignment 15
date: 2018-11-12 6:45 am
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

## Mathematical Induction

<div class="alert alert-info">
  The following is the list of problems for Chapter 10 of the <em>Book of Proof</em> (page 169).  There is a forum open
  at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in
  your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

Prove the following statements with either induction, strong induction or proof by smaller counterexample.

1. For every integer \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) it follows that \\( 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + \dotsb + n = \frac{n^2+n}{2}. \\)
2. For every integer \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) it follows that \\( 1^2 + 2^2 + 3^2 + 4^2 + \dotsb + n^2 =
   \frac{n(n+1)(2n+1)}{6}. \\)
3. For every integer \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) it follows that \\( 1^3 + 2^3 + 3^3 + 4^3 + \dotsb + n^3 =
   \frac{n^2(n+1)^2}{4}. \\)
4. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( 1\cdot 2 + 2\cdot 3 + 3\cdot 4 + 4\cdot 5 + \dotsb + n(n+1) =
   \frac{n(n+1)(n+2)}{3}. \\)
5. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( 2^1 + 2^2 + 2^3 + \dotsb + 2^n = 2^{n+1}-2. \\)
6. For every natural number \\( n, \\) it follows that \\( \sum_{k=1}^n (8k-5) = 4n^2-n. \\)
7. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( 1\cdot 3 + 2\cdot 4 + 3\cdot 5 + 4\cdot 6 + \dotsb + n(n+2) =
   \frac{n(n+1)(2n+7)}{6}. \\)
8. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( \frac{1}{2!} + \frac{2}{3!} + \frac{3}{4!} + \dotsb + \frac{n}{(n+1)!} = 1 -
   \frac{1}{(n+1)!}. \\)
9. For any integer \\( n \geq 0, \\) it follows that \\( 24 \vert (5^{2n}-1). \\)
10. For any integer \\( n \geq 0, \\) it follows that \\( 3 \vert (5^{2n}-1). \\)
11. For any integer \\( n \geq 0, \\) it follows that \\( 3 \vert (n^3+5n+6). \\)
12. For any integer \\( n \geq 0, \\) it follows that \\( 9 \vert (4^{3n}+8). \\)
13. For any integer \\( n \geq 0. \\) it follows that \\( 6 \vert (n^3-n). \\)
14. Suppose that \\( a \in \mathbb{Z}.  \\) Prove that \\( 5 \vert 2^n a \\) implies \\( 5 \vert a \\) for any \\( n \in
    \mathbb{N}. \\)
15. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( \frac{1}{1\cdot 2} + \frac{1}{2\cdot 3} + \frac{1}{3\cdot 4} + \frac{1}{4\cdot
    5} + dotsb + \frac{1}{n(n+1)} = 1 - \frac{1}{n+1}. \\)
16. For every natural number \\( n, \\) it follows that \\( 2^n +1 \leq 3^n. \\)
17. Suppose \\( A_1, A_2, \dotsc, A_n \\) are sets in some universal set \\( U, \\) and \\( n \geq 2. \\)  Prove that \\(
    (A_1 \cap A_2 \cap \dotsb \cap A_n)^\complement = A_1^\complement \cup A_2^\complement \cup \dotsb \cup
    A_n^\complement. \\)
18. Suppose \\( A_1, A_2, \dotsc, A_n \\) are sets in some universal set \\( U, \\) and \\( n \geq 2. \\)  Prove that \\(
    (A_1 \cup A_2 \cup \dotsb \cup A_n)^\complement = A_1^\complement \cap A_2^\complement \cap \dotsb \cap
    A_n^\complement. \\)
19. Prove that \\( \frac{1}{1} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{9} + \dotsb + \frac{1}{n^2} \leq 2 - \frac{1}{n}. \\)
20. Prove that \\( (1+2+3+\dotsb+n)^2 = 1^3 + 2^3 + 3^3 + \dotsb + n^3 \\) for every \\( n \in \mathbb{N}. \\)
21. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( \frac{1}{1} + \frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{5} + \dotsb +
    \frac{1}{2^n -1} + \frac{1}{2^n} \geq 1 + \frac{n}{2}. \\)
22. If \\( n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( \big( 1-\frac{1}{2} \big) \big( 1-\frac{1}{4} \big) \big( 1-\frac{1}{8} \big)
    \big( 1-\frac{1}{16} \big) \dotsb \big( 1-\frac{1}{2^n} \big) \geq \frac{1}{4} + \frac{1}{2^{n+1}}. \\)
23. Use mathematical induction to prove the binomial theorem (use equation (3.2) on page 78.)
24. Prove that \\( \sum_{k=1}^n k \binom{n}{k} = n 2^{n=1} \\) for each natural number \\( n. \\)
25. Concerning the Fibonacci sequence, prove that \\( F_1 + F_2 + F_3 + F_4 + \dotsb + F_n = F_{n+2}-1. \\)
26. Concerning the Fibonacci sequence, prove that \\( \sum_{k=1}^n F_k^2 = F_n F_{n+1}. \\)
27. Concerning the Fibonacci sequence, prove that \\( F_1 + F_3 + F_5 + F_7 + \dotsb + F_{2n-1} = F_{2n}. \\)
28. Concerning the Fibonacci sequence, prove that \\( F_2 + F_4 + F_6 + F_8 + \dotsb + F_{2n} = F_{2n+1}-1. \\)
29. In this problem \\( n \in \mathbb{N} \\) and \\( F_n \\) is the \\(n\\)th Fibonacci number.  Prove that \\(
    \binom{n}{0} + \binom{n-1}{1} + \binom{n-2}{2} + \binom{n-3}{3} + \dotsb + \binom{0}{n} =
    F_{n+1}. \\)
30. Here \\( F_n \\) is the \\(n\\)th Fibonacci number.  Prove that \\( F_n = \frac{\phi_1^n - \phi_2^n}{\sqrt{5}}, \\)
    where \\( \phi_1 = \frac{1+\sqrt{5}}{2} \\) and \\( \phi_2 = \frac{1-\sqrt{5}}{2}. \\)
31. Prove that \\( \sum_{k=0}^n \binom{k}{r} = \binom{n+1}{r+1}, \\) where \\( 1 \leq r \leq n. \\)
32. Prove that the number of \\(n\\)-digit binary numbers that have no consecutive 1's is the Fibonacci number \\(
    F_{n+2}. \\)
33. Suppose \\( n \\) straight lines lie on a plane in such a way that no two of the lines are parallel, and no three of
    the lines intersect at a single point.  Show that this arrangement divides the plane into \\( \frac{n^2+n+2}{2} \\)
    regions.
34. Prove that \\( 3^1 + 3^2 + 3^3 + 3^4 + \dotsb + 3^n = \frac{3^{n+1}-3}{2} \\) for every \\( n \in \mathbb{N}. \\)
35. Prove that if \\( n,k \in \mathbb{N}, \\) and \\( n \\) is even and \\( k \\) is odd, then \\( \binom{n}{k} \\) is even.
36. Prove that if \\( n = 2^k-1 \\) for some \\( k \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then every entry in the \\(n\\)th row of Pascal's
    triangle is odd. 
37. Prove that if \\( m,n \in \mathbb{N}, \\) then \\( \sum_{k=0}^n k \binom{m+k}{m} = n \binom{m+n+1}{m+1} -
    \binom{m+n+1}{m+2}. \\)
38. Prove that if \\( n \\) is a positive integer, then \\( \binom{n}{0}^2 + \binom{n}{1}^2 + \binom{n}{2}^2 + \dotsb +
    \binom{n}{n}^2 = \binom{2n}{n}. \\)
39. Prove that if \\( n \\) is a positive integer, then \\( \binom{n+0}{0} + \binom{n+1}{1} + \binom{n+2}{2} + \dotsb +
    \binom{n+k}{n} = \binom{n+k+1}{k}. \\)
40. Prove that \\( \sum_{k=0}^p \binom{m}{k} \binom{n}{p-k} = \binom{m+n}{p} \\) for positive integers \\(m, n\\) and
    \\(p.\\).
41. Prove that \\( \sum_{k=0}^m \binom{m}{k} \binom{n}{p+k} = \binom{m+n}{m+p} \\) for positive integers \\(m, n\\) and
    \\(p.\\).

