---
layout: post
title: MATH 300 Fall 2018 Assignment 14
date: 2018-08-03 23:23
comments: true
category: forum
current: true
---

## Direct Proofs

<div class="alert alert-info">
	The following is the list of problems for Chapter 5 of the <em>Book of Proof</em> (page 110).  There is a forum open at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor and with other students in your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post solutions</strong>.
</div>

A. Use the method of contrapositive proof to prove the following statements.  (In each case you should also think about how a direct proof would work.  You will find in most cases that contrapositive is easier.)

1. Suppose \\( n \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  if \\( n^2 \\) is even, then \\( n \\) is even.
2. Suppose \\( n \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  if \\( n^2 \\) is odd, then \\( n \\) is odd.
3. Suppose \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( a^2(b^2-2b) \\) is odd, then \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) are odd.
4. Suppose \\( a, b, c \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( a \\) does not divide \\( bc \\), then \\( a \\) does not divide \\( b \\).
5. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{R} \\).  If \\( x^2+5x<0 \\), then \\( x < 0 \\).
6. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{R} \\).  If \\( x^3-x>0 \\) then \\( x > -1 \\).
7. Suppose \\( a,b \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If both \\( ab \\) and \\( a+b \\) are even, then both \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) are even.
8. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{R} \\).  If \\( x^5-4x^4+3x^3-x^2+3x-4 \geq 0 \\), then \\( x \geq 0 \\).
9. Suppose \\( n \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( 3 \\!\nmid\\! n^2 \\), then \\( 3 \\!\nmid\\! n \\).
10. Suppose \\( x, y, z \in \mathbb{Z} \\) and \\( x \neq 0 \\).  If \\( x \\!\nmid\\! yz \\), then \\( x \\!\nmid\\! y \\) and \\( x \\!\nmid\\! z \\).
11. Suppose \\( x, y \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( x^2(y+3) \\) is even, then \\( x \\) is even or \\( y \\) is odd.
12. Suppose \\( a \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( a^2 \\) is not divisible by 4, then \\( a \\) is odd.
13. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{R} \\).  If \\( x^5 + 7x^3 + 5x \geq x^4 + x^2 + 8 \\), then \\( x \geq 0 \\).


 B. Prove the following statements using either direct or contrapositive proof.  Sometimes one approach will be much easier than the other.

{:start="14"}
14. If \\( a, b \in \mathbb{Z} \\) and \\( a \\) and \\( b \\) have the same parity, then \\( 3a +7 \\) and \\( 7b-4 \\) do not.
15. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( x^3-1 \\) is even, then \\( x \\) is odd.
16. Suppose \\( x \in \mathbb{Z} \\).  If \\( x+y \\) is even, then \\( x \\) and \\( y \\) have the same parity.
17. If \\( n \\) is odd, then \\( 8 \vert (n^2-1) \\).
