---
layout: post
title: MATH 300 Fall 2018 Assignment 10
date: 2018-08-07 15:18
comments: true
category: forum
current: false
---

## Quantifiers, Translating English to Symbolic Logic, Negating Statements

<div class="alert alert-info">
  The following is the list of problems for Sections 2.7, 2.9 and 2.10 of the <em>Book of Proof</em> (pages 53, 57 and
  60).  There is a forum open at the end, so you can ask questions.  It is a great way to interact with the instructor
  and with other students in your class, should you need some assistance with any question. Please, <strong>do not post
  solutions</strong>. 
</div>

### Exercises for Section 2.7

Write the following as English sentences.  Say whether they are true or false.

1. \\( \forall x \in \mathbb{R}, x^2 > 0 \\)
2. \\( \forall x \in \mathbb{R}, \exists n \in \mathbb{N}, x^n \geq 0 \\)
3. \\( \exists \alpha \in \mathbb{R}, \forall x \in \mathbb{R}, \alpha x = x \\)
4. \\( \forall X \in \mathscr{P}(\\mathbb{N}), X \subset \mathbb{R} \\)
5. \\( \forall n \in \mathbb{N}, \exists X \in \mathscr{P}(\mathbb{N}), \lvert X \rvert < n \\)
6. \\( \exists n \in \mathbb{N}, \forall X \in \mathscr{P}(N), \lvert X \rvert < n \\)
7. \\( \forall X \subseteq \mathbb{N}, \exists n \in \mathbb{Z}, \lvert X \rvert = n \\)
8. \\( \forall n \in \mathbb{Z}, \exists X \subseteq \mathbb{N}, \lvert X \rvert = n \\)
9. \\( \forall n \in \mathbb{Z}, \exists m \in \mathbb{Z}, m=n+5 \\)
10. \\( \exists m \in \mathbb{Z}, \forall n \in \mathbb{Z}, m=n+5 \\)

### Exercises for Section 2.9

Translate each of the following sentences into symbolic logic.

1. If \\( f \\) is a polynomial and its degree is greater than 2, then \\( f' \\) is not constant.
2. The number \\( x \\) is positive but the number \\( y \\) is not positive.
3. If \\( x \\) is prime then \\( \sqrt{x} \\) is not a rational number.
4. For every prime number \\( p \\) there is another prime number \\( q \\) with \\( q > p \\).
5. For every positive number \\( \varepsilon \\), there is a positive number \\( \delta \\) for which \\( \lvert x - \alpha \rvert < \delta \\) implies \\( \lvert f(x) - f(\alpha) \rvert < \varepsilon \\).
6. For every positive number \\( \varepsilon \\) there is a positive number \\( M \\) for which \\( \lvert f(x) - b \rvert < \varepsilon \\), whenever \\( x > M \\).
7. There exists a real number \\( a \\) for which \\( a + x = x \\) for every real number \\( x \\).
8. I don't eat anything that has a face.
9. If \\( x \\) is a rational number and \\( x \neq 0 \\) then \\( \tan(x) \\) is not a rational number.
10. If \\( \sin(x) < 0 \\), then it is not the case that \\( 0 \leq x \leq \pi \\).
11. There is a Providence that protects idiots, drunkards, children and the United States of America.  (Otto von Bismark)
12. You can fool some of the people all of the time, and you can fool all of the people some of the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time. (Abraham Lincoln)
13. Everything is funny as long as it is happening to somebody else. (Will Rogers)

### Exercises for Section 2.10

Negate the following sentences.

1. The number \\( x \\) is positive but the number \\( y \\) is not positive.
2. If \\( x \\) is prime then \\( \sqrt{x} \\) is not a rational number.
3. For every prime number \\( p \\) there is another prime number \\( q \\) with \\( q > p \\).
4. For every positive number \\( \varepsilon \\), there is a positive number \\( \delta \\) for which \\( \lvert x - \alpha \rvert < \delta \\) implies \\( \lvert f(x) - f(\alpha) \rvert < \varepsilon \\).
5. For every positive number \\( \varepsilon \\) there is a positive number \\( M \\) for which \\( \lvert f(x) - b \rvert < \varepsilon \\), whenever \\( x > M \\).
6. There exists a real number \\( a \\) for which \\( a + x = x \\) for every real number \\( x \\).
7. I don't eat anything that has a face.
8. If \\( x \\) is a rational number and \\( x \neq 0 \\) then \\( \tan(x) \\) is not a rational number.
9. If \\( \sin(x) < 0 \\), then it is not the case that \\( 0 \leq x \leq \pi \\).
10. If \\( f \\) is a polynomial and its degree is greater than 2, then \\( f' \\) is not constant.
11. You can fool all of the people all of the time.
12. Whenever I have to choose between two evils, I choose the one I haven't tried yet.  (Mae West)
